toefl listening gist purpose
in this video i am going to explain to
you what a gist purpose
question tests you on how to identify
this type of question
what strategy you can use when you see
one
and we'll finish with some tips and
tricks at the end
so what is a just purpose question and
what does it test you on
well it tests your overall understanding
and ability to recognize the main
purpose
of a conversation or lecture
how do we identify these question types
well you're going to see question
prompts that say something like
why does the student visit the professor
or why does the student visit the
registrar's office
why did the professor ask to see the
student
or why does the professor explain blah
blah blah
what strategy should you use if you see
one of these questions
well you need to listen to the audio and
take notes
you need to read the question
think about why or purpose
eliminate incorrect answer options and
choose the option that best
describes the main reason or purpose
okay so let's do this i want you to
listen to the audio and take
notes so have a pen and paper ready
hi i'm jane stansfield i have an
appointment to talk to a counselor about
scholarships the university is offering
sure jane good to see you take a seat
thank you
the university has a range of
scholarships available
are you a senior yeah great
in that case there are a number of
scholarships which have been made
available
depending on your circumstances and
plans
the most regular scholarship is the
senior ongoing
which is an initial grant than regular
payments
it's based on academic merit are there
any
needs-based scholarships we have a
hardship grant and scholarship
these are based on your financial
circumstances
we have some specifically department
scholarships
which department are you in i'm in
architecture
nice let me see there are three special
architecture scholarships available
all based on merit so if your gpa has
been consistently high
you can apply they're quite substantial
and are provided by architecture firms
would you be interested in looking at
those
that could be them how can i get a hold
of the information
okay so here are my notes and you can
see i've categorized them into two
columns what jane said and what the
counselor said
so let's read the question why does jane
visit the counselor
i'm going to think about why according
to our notes and our memory of what was
said
okay now let's eliminate incorrect
answer options
so why does jane visit the counselor she
needs to repay her student loan
no that was not the reason why she's not
doing well in her studies
no that's not the reason why she wishes
to study architecture
no that's not the reason why she visited
the counselor
now we're going to choose the option
that best describes the main reason
which is that she wants to apply for a
scholarship
let's now try this on a lecture and
first we'll recap the strategy so
listen to the audio and take notes read
the question
think about why or the purpose
eliminate incorrect answer options and
then choose the option that best
describes the main
reason so here we go let's listen to the
audio and take notes you might want to
categorize your notes into main ideas
and details
so let's go back a little in history and
there we can find that the idea of
strategy in business
owes its origins to two intellectual
giants bruce henderson and michael
porter
now henderson's central idea was what
you might call a napoleonic idea
the idea of overwhelming the enemy and
what henderson recognized was that
in the business world the more you do of
something disproportionately the better
you get at it
and so he found a logic for investing in
a show of force or a show of
strength in order to achieve competitive
advantage
and that was the first introduction of
what is essentially a military concept a
military strategy
he introduced it into the business world
now porter agreed with that premise but
he qualified it he pointed out and i
think correctly that that's all very
well but that
businesses have different components and
each of those components might be
driven by a different kind of strategy
so a company or a business
might actually be advantaged in some
activities but
disadvantaged in others so porter formed
the concept of the value chain and the
value chain is essentially the sequence
of steps
with which uh shall we say raw material
is transformed into a component
and that component is later transformed
into a finished product which is then
distributed for example and he argued
that advantage accrued at each step
and that the advantage of the whole was
in some sense the sum or the average of
that of its parts
okay here are my notes
now i'm going to read the question what
is the main purpose of the lecture
i'm going to think about why or the
reason
i'm then going to eliminate incorrect
answer options
and i'm going to choose the option that
best describes the main reason which is
this one here
the main purpose of the lecture is to
explain the origins of business strategy
okay let's finish with some tips and
tricks so don't note down every word
when you're listening to that
conversational lecture that would be
impossible
you want to note down key words and key
phrases
keep your notes organized think about
how you might categorize them
read the answer options last
first try to guess the answer based on
your notes
and of course practice makes perfect so
you might want to check out
e2language.com where you can do lots of
practice questions
you can take our mini mock test which is
pretty awesome it gives you an
indicative score and lots of feedback on
all parts of the test
you can take one-on-one tutorials with
our expert teachers that are 45 minutes
in length and they will answer
any question you have you can also
submit assessments through the platform
so you'll get speaking and writing
feedback within 24 to 48 hours
cool if you're watching this on youtube
don't forget to subscribe like leave a
comment and share this with your friends